so now that you know that manifestation
is just turning your thoughts into
reality how the front flop do you even
do it step number one decide what you
want to manifest it sounds really
obvious but you have to get specific
with it for example say you want to be
more financially stable instead of just
making your manifestation I want more
money you need to be more specific how
much money do you want where would you
like to get that from would you like to
get it from your job would you like to
get it for just being yourself
Elliot knew it was his destiny to win
the lottery become a millionaire and
then win the heart of a beautiful blonde
girl by flaunting his wealth and he knew
he would fulfill his fate thanks to a
book called the secrets the secret is a
book that [ __ ] people read to
convince themselves that their wildest
dreams can come true if they just
believe hard enough so Elliot spent days
visualizing himself winning the lottery
bought a handful of Mega Millions
lottery tickets and then lost my faith
was soon broken as I bought a few Mega
Millions lottery tickets and visualized
myself being the winner
I usually visualized it by meditating on
the rooftop of my mother's apartment
right at the time of the dry altering
your vibration because like attracts
like that's like the law of attraction
so to reiterate step 2 is to think feel
believe that it is happening it is
coming to you everything that you're
trying to manifest is on its way with my
whole body filled with feverish hope I
spent $700 on lottery tickets for this
drawing as I spent this money I imagined
all the amazing sex I would have with a
beautiful model girlfriend I would have
once I became a man
well on the day of the lottery drawing
Elliot was so nervous that he couldn't
bear to look at his tickets to see if
he'd won he spent the next three full
days sitting alone in his bedroom trying
to work up the courage to check his
tickets on the fourth day I decided to
just go through with it
the result was already decided and the
amount of time it took me to check it
wouldn't change anything I had to see
the truth my heart was beating rapidly
as I loaded up the webpage to the Mega
Millions website what I saw crushed all
of my hope completely my whole body
shivered with horrific agony I didn't
win yo what is up recording outdoors
with my best girl Melissa under the
trees in the beautiful Victoria BC
Canada winter early winter you you could
say fall but ain't none of these trees
turn to turn red huh so we both did
watch recently supreme bananas
declaration of ardent faith for the
secret also known as the law of
attraction also known as wishful
thinking so I'll put the camera on me I
guess but if you want to jump in anytime
less you can yeah look guys this is
parallel to a lot of issues I've dealt
with within Buddhism and a lot of people
imagine that some of the kind of quaint
beliefs in Buddhism have no victims have
no negative impacts on people's lives
because they're not obviously odious and
violent and threatening in the same way
that the Catholic Church showing telling
you that you'll go to hell after you die
is is a odious and violent and
threatening but it's it's really
important to sit down and unpack with
people what the negative consequences
are there are voices that attest you
just how harmful it is to live with this
cult of wishful thinking and one of the
most dramatic and graphic that I
encourage you guys to take a moment to
hear I'll provide a link below this
video is the voice of none other than
Elliot Rodger Elliot Rodger the mass
murderer serial killer or whatever you
want to call it Elliot Rodger writes in
in a very evocative tones about how
he discovered this book the secret how
he discovered the power of positive
thinking how he became a true believer
in it and how he spent hours reading
these books both the secret in one other
book and exactly the same genre of
teaching you the power of positive
thinking teaching you to in effect pray
to the universe for the things you want
teaching you that desiring things
ardently will make them manifest in your
life magically and so on and so forth
and that he spent hours quote-unquote
meditating to achieve these things
what's unusual about Elliott Rogers
testimony is that he also takes the time
to describe to you how heartbroken he
was when he didn't get what he wanted
how time after time for example in
buying lottery tickets he built up in
his imagination he followed all the
instructions of these books you know the
books tell you not to imagine this is
something you will do in the future but
to think of it a thing you've already
accomplished here and now they have all
these very specific on a visualization
exercises and then how devastated he was
and self-destructive he became when
these things did not come to fruition I
spent the whole month meditating in my
room or roaming around the park
visualizing the final outcome of my
victory through the power of the law of
attraction which I had studied so
intensely with the new book I found I
felt certain that I would become the
winner
I love affirmations every time when I
wake up in the morning the first thing I
do is think affirmations to myself and
then I go to the mirror and I say them
out loud so I go to my mirror and I'm
like I am successful I am rich money
comes easily to me I live an abundant
life I make enough money that I'm able
to live a lavish and beautiful life but
also help others my book is a huge
success
bla bla bla literally whatever you want
to manifest turn it into I am statements
and make sure it is in present tense I
didn't win I looked at my ticket over
and over again and then at the winning
numbers no match it was just like what
happened in March except this was worse
because I had built up anticipation for
the entire summer
the winner was some guy from Riverside
he took my money
what a waste what an injustice I was so
certain that the universe would finally
grant me salvation after a life of
torture and suffering that night I threw
a wild tantrum screaming and crying for
hours on end now it was pointed out an
important element of Eliot Rogers story
which we only now know recently as a
fact is that he was diagnosed as having
autism and this is also a recurring
problem with religion on whom does
religion pray especially talking about
this this kind of you know cult of
wishful thinking who is going to be a
victim of this in general it's not going
to be people who are already beautiful
strong self-sufficient and wealthy it's
going to be predominantly people who are
weak emotionally weak mentally weak
disabled people who are either really
are unattractive or who feel
unattractive as Elliot Rodger did people
who are unlucky in love unlucky and
their their work lives unlucky in terms
of what they managed to make out of the
educational system and so on the society
they live in people who are looking for
hope in all the wrong places so Elliot
Rodger you know okay some of you who
have clicked on this video and this is
not what you were expecting here at all
so let's let's just pause and and put
this in perspective but we have very
simple parallelism what if it wasn't the
secret that Elliot Rodger had purchased
read and meditated on what if instead
the book he had purchased was the Quran
everyone today would be calling Elliot
Rodger the Muslim fundamentalist serial
killer that would be whatever we'll
refer to him as Elliot Rodger was the
power of positive thinking serial killer
Elliot Rodger was the power of
manifestation the secret paused the
visualization serial killer that is the
book he bought and paid for and read and
believed in and quote-unquote meditated
on and in my years of involvement with
Buddhism is very often been important
for me to challenge people on the notion
of meditation and in what way in
particular
really think that this idea is different
from prayer what what le Roger did in
the quote-unquote meditating it is quite
apt to say that he was praying for the
universe to give him what he desired and
that there is almost no difference
between this meditation negation and
praying to
for example the Muslim God to give you
what you desire
I always know you know in German they
don't have to separate verbs for pray
and beg we do in English with they can
pray in German praying to God is begging
to God and in a sense in English we all
have one of the same verb for both so
you know you can say that it's not God
that it's quote unquote the universe you
can say that it's meditation and not
prayer and you can point out that this
is a I mean it's a book other than the
Bible it's not necessarily a
conventional religion but it's precisely
in you know the format of you know
people like supreme banana that you can
see the pernicious way in which this
religion is packaged and promoted and
made popular by people who themselves
are attractive successful wealthy and
present to the weak-minded among us
including people with autism people who
are outright [ __ ] people who are
struggling with serious and perhaps you
know insuperable difficulties including
just poverty present them with the
seeming power of wishful thinking now of
course another thing that makes all this
more tragicomic is the element of of
youth a large part of what drew elliot
rodger into his self-destructive and
ultimately murderous downward spiral and
a large part of what draws people like
supreme banana into the power of
manifestation powerful thinking and
draws other followers into it is of
course the human desire to be loved to
be admired for some people it may be
purely mercenary it may just be that
they want a better job but a career but
for various reasons i think that's less
likely because they're less likely to
romanticize that's part of their lives
to to this extent but whether we're
talking about a job applicant for
someone approaching you hitting on you
we've won someone trying to initiate a
relationship what is more appealing
someone who is the glowing eyes of a
true believer someone who is trying to
manifest and believe in the notion not
merely that they deserve something not
remember that they want something and
may or may not get it but that they
already have it that they believe it's
already theirs it's already there you
may have never had the experience of
someone hitting on this weapon some some
men and women watch this video you
haven't had people you know walk up on
you I have I mean from an early age I
remember it was like being a teenage guy
and having women who were thirty trying
to get me into bed and stuff at all ages
I had the experience of women hitting on
me in in various ways and obviously a
lot of women watching this video had
that experience with different guys
probably the best attitude
someone could have and approaching you
is a kind of cool detachment a
detachment is a virtue in Buddhism but
it doesn't seem to do the Buddhism much
of anyone is interested in if anyone
uses to sell the religion which is a
which is perhaps a great shame if
someone is applying for a job which
candidate for the job is a better
candidate the person with glowing eyes
and faithful zeal who tells you that
they believe in this destiny that they
they already have this job that you know
they believe in it so much or the person
who has a detached attitude of well you
know maybe I'm the right person for the
job maybe I'm not and I respect your
decision I'm here to do the best I can
maybe I can contribute something great
to this company or this project and
maybe I can't you know let's let's find
out together and someone who's gonna
leave with that same sense of that same
sense of detached compassion for all all
the people making decisions in those
situations we all live in a crowded
society I'm sorry even if you're
watching this in the middle of the
desert or something you know you're
living in the 21st century society and
you're watching this video right now
your life is being crowded to some
extent by your proximity to the internet
and the proximity to a strange
personality you know like myself all of
us must face up to the fact that the
most crucial decisions in our lives are
not made
by ourselves but are made by others and
they're really beyond our power to
control and that may be you know
struggling with the reality of the fact
that you have a crush on someone and
it's up to them whether or not they even
give you five minutes to make your pitch
what's enough they give you the chance
to take you for a cup of coffee or
something okay you know we all got to
grow up and deal with that some of us
deal with it at sixteen seven 26 some
tragically much later in life the choice
of what job you're gonna get what access
to education you're going to get whether
or not you're led into a given
university program or job training
program these are decisions made by
others around us in a crowded society
and they may be made for very capricious
reasons indeed reasons that have nothing
to do with who you are your your
personality or your you know your sense
of Worth and some deep deep sense and it
definitely have nothing to do with with
any kind of supernatural destiny I
closed this video by pointing out I do
not describe myself as an atheist and
it's rare that I describe myself as a
skeptic because the meaning of the word
skeptic has been dragged through the mud
right here on YouTube before skeptic has
really take it on some some odious
meanings and it's lost some of what at
once met thousands of years ago the word
I use to describe myself is nihilist and
this case study in many ways shows why
rejecting the belief in God in any
particular god or gods and the plural is
not enough it's not sufficient the the
belief in the power of positive thinking
belief in the form of wishful thinking
you know that's really a my mind been
formalized into a religion by the secret
that is dangerous that does frankly
destroy people's lives not always as
dramatically as with elliot rodger but
the fundamental realization that leads
me to call myself a nihilist is that
it's not any one belief that's dangerous
its belief itself
equal this lignum from any block of wood
and idle may be carved in the same way
that the human imagination can fasten
onto the power of positive thinking can
pat can fasten on the idea that the
universe is either for god sitting in
judgment over you or is in some sense
your servant pretty people thinks you
desire if only you ask for them
welcome ardently enough all of these you
know self-made myths and misconceptions
the mind can fasten onto them and the
unfastening of the mind from them the
very detachment that i'm alluding to
here as being the cardinal virtue in our
lives as adults that's what comes about
precisely by questioning belief whether
you're comfortable with calling that
nihilism or no
[Music]
evolution